OKTA-425734 Add Java content for OIE upgrade SDK mappings (#2733)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/oie-upgrade-api-sdk-to-oie-sdk/main/java/mfaauth.md

The migration example in this section uses a sign-on policy with username, password, and an email factor.

### Okta Authentication SDK authentication flow for MFA

For a multifactor sign-in authentication flow using the Java Auth SDK, a typical app has to instantiate the `AuthenticationClient` object and call the `authenticate()` method, similar to the [Map basic sign-in code to the Okta Identity Engine SDK](#map-basic-sign-in-code-to-the-okta-identity-engine-sdk) use case.

> In this MFA scenario, there is an additional email factor to verify, therefore the  `authenticate()` call returns an `AuthenticationResponse` object with a list of one additional factor to verify: the email factor. The `AuthenticationResponse.getFactors()` method is used to return the list of factors to verify.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this MFA scenario, there is an additional email factor to verify, therefore the `authenticate()` call returns an `AuthenticationResponse` object with a list of one additional factor to verify: the email factor. The `AuthenticationResponse.getFactors()` method is used to return the list of factors to verify.
```

```java
final String factorId = authenticationResponse.getFactors().get(0).getId();
final FactorType factorType = authenticationResponse.getFactors().get(0).getType();
final String stateToken = authenticationResponse.getStateToken();

// we only support Email factor for sample purpose
if (factorType == FactorType.EMAIL) {
    AuthenticationResponse authResponse = authenticationClient.verifyFactor(factorId, stateToken, ignoringStateHandler);
    final ModelAndView emailAuthView = new ModelAndView("verify-email-authenticator");
    emailAuthView.addObject("authenticationResponse", authResponse);
    return emailAuthView;
} else {
    final ModelAndView errorView = new ModelAndView("home");
    errorView.addObject("error", "Factor type " + factorType + " + is not supported in this sample yet");
    return errorView;
}
```

For the email factor, the app has to verify a code that is sent to the user’s email. The `AuthenticationClient.challengeFactor()` method is called to send the verify-code email, then the `AuthenticationClient.verifyFactor()` method is used to verify the code from the email.

> > **Note:** If there is only one factor in the list, the app does not need to call `challengeFactor()`, as it is automatically triggered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** If there is only one factor in the list, the app doesn't need to call `challengeFactor()`, as it is automatically triggered.
```

```java
try {
    final VerifyPassCodeFactorRequest verifyPassCodeFactorRequest =
         authenticationClient.instantiate(VerifyPassCodeFactorRequest.class);
    verifyPassCodeFactorRequest.setStateToken(stateToken);
    verifyPassCodeFactorRequest.setPassCode(passcode);
    verifyPassCodeFactorRequest.setRememberDevice(false);

    authenticationResponse = authenticationClient.verifyFactor(factorId,
         verifyPassCodeFactorRequest, ignoringStateHandler);
} catch (final AuthenticationException e) {
    logger.error("Verify Email Factor Error - Status: {}, Code: {}, Message: {}",
         e.getStatus(), e.getCode(), e.getMessage());
    final ModelAndView errorView = new ModelAndView();
    errorView.addObject("error", e.getStatus() + ":" + e.getCode() + ":" +
         e.getMessage());
    return errorView;
}
```

If the `verifyFactor()` method is successful, an `AuthenticationResponse` object is returned with a session token and a `SUCCESS` status.

### Okta Identity Engine SDK authentication flow for MFA

> The Identity Engine MFA authentication flow is initially similar to implement using the Identity Engine SDK, however, there are slight differences in handling the subsequent multifactors.  The authentication flow starts when the app instantiates the `IDXAuthenticationWrapper` client object and calls the `begin()` method. After receiving the username and password from the user, the app passes them as arguments to the  `authenticate()` method (similar to the classic `AuthenticationClient.authenticate()` method). This method returns the Identity Engine `AuthenticationResponse` object with an `AuthenticationStatus`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Identity Engine MFA authentication flow is initially similar to implement using the Identity Engine SDK, however, there are slight differences in handling the subsequent multifactors. The authentication flow starts when the app instantiates the `IDXAuthenticationWrapper` client object and calls the `begin()` method. After receiving the username and password from the user, the app passes them as arguments to the `authenticate()` method (similar to the classic `AuthenticationClient.authenticate()` method). This method returns the Identity Engine `AuthenticationResponse` object with an `AuthenticationStatus`.
```

If additional factors are required, then `AuthenticationStatus=AWAITING_AUTHENTICATOR_SELECTION` and a list of authenticators (`AuthenticationResponse.getAuthenticators()`) to be verified are returned in the `AuthenticationResponse`. This is where the Identity Engine MFA differs from the Classic Engine MFA. The Identity Engine MFA flow has the following general pattern:

- AuthenticationResponse returns `AuthenticationStatus=AWAITING_AUTHENTICATOR_SELECTION` &mdash; Implying that the app/user has to select the authenticator to verify. The app can provide the user with a selection of authenticators to verify (if there is more than one authenticator) or the app can choose to select the authenticator on behalf of the user and present the user with an appropriate message.

- The app calls `IDXAuthenticationWrapper.selectAuthenticator()` to select the authenticator to verify &mdash; This is synonymous with Java Auth SDK’s `AuthenticationClient.challengeFactor()` method, where the authenticator challenge is triggered. In this case, an email is sent with the verify code.

>   > **Note:** Unlike the Java Auth SDK’s `challengeFactor()`, the single authenticator is not automatically selected. The app must call the selectAuthenticator() method to trigger the authenticator challenge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > **Note:** Unlike the Java Auth SDK’s `challengeFactor()`, the single authenticator isn't automatically selected. The app must call the `selectAuthenticator()` method to trigger the authenticator challenge.
```

  ```java
    authenticationResponse = idxAuthenticationWrapper.selectAuthenticator(proceedContext, authenticator);
  ```

- AuthenticationResponse returns `AuthenticationStatus=AWAITING_AUTHENTICATOR_VERIFICATION` &mdash; Implying that Okta is waiting for the authenticator verification from the user/app.

- The app calls `IDXAuthenticationWrapper.verifyAuthenticator()` to provide the authenticator verification  &mdash; This is synonymous with Java Auth SDK’s `AuthenticationClient.verifyFactor()` method, where the app provides the challenge verification. In this case, the code within the user’s email is provided as an argument.

  ```java
  ProceedContext proceedContext = Util.getProceedContextFromSession(session);VerifyAuthenticatorOptions verifyAuthenticatorOptions = new
     VerifyAuthenticatorOptions(code);
  AuthenticationResponse authenticationResponse =
     idxAuthenticationWrapper.verifyAuthenticator(proceedContext,
     verifyAuthenticatorOptions);
  ```

> - AuthenticationResponse returns either

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- AuthenticationResponse returns either:
```

  * `AuthenticationStatus=SUCCESS` &mdash; The MFA process is successful and the app can call `AuthenticationResponse.getTokenResponse()` to retrieve the required tokens for authenticated user activity.
  * `AuthenticationStatus=AWAITING_AUTHENTICATOR_SELECTION` &mdash; Additional authenticator verification is required, and the app can loop through the MFA remediation process again [`AuthenticationStatus=AWAITING_AUTHENTICATOR_SELECTION` -> `selectAuthenticator()` -> `AuthenticationStatus=AWAITING_AUTHENTICATOR_VERIFICATION` -> `verifyAuthenticator()` -> check `AuthenticationStatus`].

The number of required/optional authenticators for MFA are configured in the Admin Console and in the app sign-on policies. The Identity Engine-enabled app is structured in a way that enables the MFA challenges to differ based on user, group, context, and available factors, since the MFA process is driven by policies set in Okta, and not hard-coded into the app.

> For further details on how this use case is implemented with the Java Identity Engine SDK , see [Sign in with password and email factors](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-sdk-use-case-sign-in-pwd-email/java/main/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For further details on how this use case is implemented with the Java Identity Engine SDK, see [Sign in with password and email factors](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-sdk-use-case-sign-in-pwd-email/java/main/).
```
